Add Asset Hub overview + local asset registration (#17)
papermoonio/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft: docs/build-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/register-a-local-asset.md

---
title: Register a local asset
description: Comprehensive guide to registering a local asset on the Asset Hub system parachain, including step-by-step instructions.
---

# Register a local asset on Asset Hub

## Introduction
As detailed in the [Asset Hub Overview](./overview.md#local-assets){target=_blank} page, Asset Hub accommodates two types of assets: local and foreign. Local assets are those that were created in Asset Hub and are identifiable by an integer ID. This guide will take you through the steps of registering a local asset on the Asset Hub parachain.

## Prerequisites

> Before you begin, ensure you have access to the [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/){target=_blank} interface and a Polkadot.js account with a balance of DOT or KSM.

Reviewer: I would try to make this more generic. Instead of a Polkadot.js account I would say something like a funded wallet with DOT

- For Polkadot Asset Hub, you would need a `deposit of 10 DOT` and around `0.201 DOT for the metadata`
- For Kusama Asset Hub, the `deposit is 0.1 KSM` and around `0.000669 KSM for the metadata`

You need to ensure that your Asset Hub account balance is a bit more than the sum of those two deposits, which should seamlessly account for the required deposits and transaction fees.

> ## Environment setup

Reviewer: This section is cool for testing, but maybe is not necessary here for explaining the process

Author: I will move it to the end of the article for now

      - For the live network, connect to the `Asset Hub` parachain. Either Polkadot or Kusama Asset Hub can be selected from the dropdown list.
    
2. Click on the `Network` tab on the left sidebar and select the `Asset Hub` parachain from the dropdown list.
 
      ![Access to Asset Hub through Polkadot.JS](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-1.webp) 

4. Now, you need to examine all the registered asset IDs. This step is crucial to ensure that the asset ID you are about to register is unique. Asset IDs are displayed in the `assets` column.

      ![Asset IDs on Asset Hub](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-2.webp)

5. Once you have confirmed that the asset ID is unique, click on the `Create` button on the top right corner of the page.
   
      ![Create a new asset](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-3.webp)

> 6. Fill in the required fields in the `Create Asset` form and click on the `Create` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Fill in the required fields in the `Create Asset` form and click on the **Next** button.
```

>     - `creator account` - the account to be used for creating this asset and setting up the initial metadata.

Reviewer: Remove period from all descriptions

    - `asset name` - the descriptive name of the asset you are registering.
    - `asset symbol` - the symbol that will be used to represent the asset.
    - `asset decimals` - the number of decimal places for this token, with a maximum of 20 allowed through the user interface.
    - `minimum balance` - the minimum balance for the asset. This is specified in the units and decimals as requested.
    - `asset ID` - the selected id for the asset. This should not match an already-existing asset id.
 
    ![Create Asset Form](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-4.webp)

> 7. Select the `admin account`, `issuer-account` and `freezer-account`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select the `admin account`, `issuer-account` and `freezer-account`, and then click on the **Create** button.
```

    - `admin account` - the account designated for continuous administration of the token      
    - `issuer account` - the account that will be used for issuing this token
    - `freezer account` - the account that will be used for performing token freezing operations

    ![Admin, Issuer, Freezer accounts](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-5.webp)

8. Finally, click on the `Sign and Submit` button to complete the asset registration process.

    ![Sign and Submit](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-6.webp)

> After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered on the Asset Hub parachain. You can now view your asset listed on the [`Assets` section](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/assets){target=_blank} of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.

Reviewer: This link does not work

> After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered on the Asset Hub parachain. You can now view your asset listed on the [`Assets` section](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/assets){target=_blank} of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered. You can now view your asset listed on the [`Assets` section](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/assets){target=_blank} of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.
```

    - `asset ID` - the selected id for the asset. This should not match an already-existing asset id
 
    ![Create Asset Form](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-4.webp)

6. Select the `admin account`, `issuer-account` and `freezer-account`, and then click on the **Create** button

    - `admin account` - the account designated for continuous administration of the token      
    - `issuer account` - the account that will be used for issuing this token
    - `freezer account` - the account that will be used for performing token freezing operations

    ![Admin, Issuer, Freezer accounts](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-5.webp)

8. Finally, click on the **Sign and Submit** button to complete the asset registration process.

    ![Sign and Submit](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-6.webp)

## Verify asset registration

> After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered. You can now view your asset listed on the [`Assets` section](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fasset-hub-polkadot-rpc.dwellir.com#/assets){target=_blank} of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered. You can now view your asset listed on the [`Assets`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fasset-hub-polkadot-rpc.dwellir.com#/assets){target=_blank} section of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.
```

      
![Asset listed on Polkadot.js Apps](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-7.webp)

!!! note
    Take into consideration that the `Assets section` link will be different according to the network you are using. For the local environment, the link will be `ws://127.0.0.1:8000/#/assets`.

In this way, you have successfully registered a local asset on the Asset Hub parachain.

> ## Environment setup

Author: I think it's important to include a brief explanation somewhere about how to simulate this process since it involves real money in the real world. I initially moved it to the bottom, but perhaps I should create a separate file just for that purpose

However, the "registering a foreign asset" process would also require to have a test setup for that. I'm not sure if it makes sense to have separate test setup files.

> ## Environment setup

Reviewer 2: I think this just needs some tweaking and it will make more sense. It's good to show them how to run a test before going on to the live networks.

> ## Environment setup

Author: Yes, I agree with that as well. I'm figuring out how to make it look better or make more sense.

I'm still unsure if the best approach would be to move this to a new file (considering that I'd have to do the same for the registration of foreign assets) or to add some extra introduction to this section to put the reader in context...

Any ideas? @0xLucca @dawnkelly09 @eshaben

---
title: Register a local asset
description: Comprehensive guide to registering a local asset on the Asset Hub system parachain, including step-by-step instructions.
---

> # Register a local asset on Asset Hub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Register a Local Asset on Asset Hub
```

## Introduction

> As detailed in the [Asset Hub Overview](./overview.md#local-assets){target=_blank} page, Asset Hub accommodates two types of assets: local and foreign. Local assets are those that were created in Asset Hub and are identifiable by an integer ID. This guide will take you through the steps of registering a local asset on the Asset Hub parachain.

Reviewer 3: I would also add a quick sentence about foreign assets here, just so users can determine whether or not they're on the right page before moving on with local assets

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have access to the [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/){target=_blank} interface and a funded wallet with DOT or KSM.

> - For Polkadot Asset Hub, you would need a `deposit of 10 DOT` and around `0.201 DOT for the metadata`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For Polkadot Asset Hub, you will need a `deposit of 10 DOT` and around `0.201 DOT for the metadata`
```

> - For Kusama Asset Hub, the `deposit is 0.1 KSM` and around `0.000669 KSM for the metadata`

Reviewer 3: I don't think the backticks are necessary here

You need to ensure that your Asset Hub account balance is a bit more than the sum of those two deposits, which should seamlessly account for the required deposits and transaction fees.

> ## Steps to register a local asset

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Steps to Register a Local Asset
```

To register a local asset on the Asset Hub parachain, follow these steps:

> 1. Open the [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/){target=_blank} interface and connect to the `Asset Hub` parachain

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/){target=_blank} interface and connect to the Asset Hub parachain using the network selector in the top left corner
```

>       - For the local environment, ensure that you have set up a local testing enviroment, as explained in the [Environment setup](#environment-setup) section. Once the local environment is set up, connect to the `Local Node (Chopsticks)` available on `ws://127.0.0.1:8000`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - You may prefer to test local asset registration on TestNet before registering the asset on a MainNet hub. If you still need to set up a local testing environment, review the [Environment setup](#environment-setup) section for instructions. Once the local environment is set up, connect to the `Local Node (Chopsticks)` available on `ws://127.0.0.1:8000`. 
```

>       - You may prefer to test local asset registration on TestNet before registering the asset on a MainNet hub. If you still need to set up a local testing environment, review the [Environment setup](#environment-setup) section for instructions. Once the local environment is set up, connect to the `Local Node (Chopsticks)` available on `ws://127.0.0.1:8000`. 

Reviewer 3: Why is `Local Node (Chopsticks)` in back ticks, is this a UI element? If so, it should be in bold instead

>       - For the live network, connect to the `Asset Hub` parachain. Either Polkadot or Kusama Asset Hub can be selected from the dropdown list, choosing the desired RPC provider

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      - For the live network, connect to the **AssetHub** parachain. The Polkadot Asset Hub is listed under **Polkadot & Parachains**, and similarly, the Kusama Asset Hub is listed under **Kusama & Parachains**
```

> 2. Click on the **Network** tab on the left sidebar and select the **Asset Hub** parachain from the dropdown list

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click on the **Network** tab on the top navigation bar and select **Assets** from the dropdown list
```

The image and step weren't aligning, so this now aligns but please double-check this

>       ![Access to Asset Hub through Polkadot.JS](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-1.webp) 

Reviewer 3: Oh jeez, these arrows look tiny. In the theme settings for snagit, is the image size configured?

Author: I agree. We need to manually set the image size. However, when resizing the images to a width of 756px as the documentation states, the image quality significantly decreases. I'll retake all these images with more zoom to see if that solves the issue

      ![Asset IDs on Asset Hub](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-2.webp)

4. Once you have confirmed that the asset ID is unique, click on the **Create** button on the top right corner of the page
   
      ![Create a new asset](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-3.webp)

5. Fill in the required fields in the **Create Asset** form and click on the **Next** button
   
    - `creator account` - the account to be used for creating this asset and setting up the initial metadata
    - `asset name` - the descriptive name of the asset you are registering
    - `asset symbol` - the symbol that will be used to represent the asset
    - `asset decimals` - the number of decimal places for this token, with a maximum of 20 allowed through the user interface
    - `minimum balance` - the minimum balance for the asset. This is specified in the units and decimals as requested

>     - `asset ID` - the selected id for the asset. This should not match an already-existing asset id

Reviewer 3: These are all UI elements so they should be in bold instead of in backticks

 
    ![Create Asset Form](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-4.webp)

6. Select the `admin account`, `issuer-account` and `freezer-account`, and then click on the **Create** button

    - `admin account` - the account designated for continuous administration of the token      
    - `issuer account` - the account that will be used for issuing this token

>     - `freezer account` - the account that will be used for performing token freezing operations

Reviewer 3: These are all UI elements so they should be in bold instead of in backticks

    ![Admin, Issuer, Freezer accounts](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-5.webp)

> 8. Finally, click on the **Sign and Submit** button to complete the asset registration process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
8. Finally, click on the **Sign and Submit** button to complete the asset registration process
```

    ![Sign and Submit](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-6.webp)

> ## Verify asset registration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Verify Asset Registration
```

> After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered. You can now view your asset listed on the [`Assets`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fasset-hub-polkadot-rpc.dwellir.com#/assets){target=_blank} section of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After completing these steps, the asset will be successfully registered. You can now view your asset listed on the [**Assets**](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fasset-hub-polkadot-rpc.dwellir.com#/assets){target=_blank} section of the Polkadot.js Apps interface.
```

      
![Asset listed on Polkadot.js Apps](/polkadot-ecosystem-docs-draft/images/building-on-polkadot/parachains/asset-hub/registering-a-local-asset/registering-a-local-asset-7.webp)

!!! note

>     Take into consideration that the `Assets section` link will be different according to the network you are using. For the local environment, the link will be `ws://127.0.0.1:8000/#/assets`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Take into consideration that the **Assets** section link will be different according to the network you are using. For the local environment, the link will be `ws://127.0.0.1:8000/#/assets`.
```

In this way, you have successfully registered a local asset on the Asset Hub parachain.

For an in-depth explanation of Asset Hub and its features, please refer to the Polkadot Wiki page on [Asset Hub](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-assets){target=\_blank}.

> ## Environment setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Environment Setup
```

> It might be beneficial to set up a local parachain environment to test the asset registration process before deploying it on the live network. This guide uses `chopsticks` to simulate that process. For further information on chopsticks usage, refer to the [Chopsticks](../../../dev-tools/chopsticks/overview.md){target=_blank} documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set up a local parachain environment to test the asset registration process before deploying it on the live network. This guide uses `chopsticks` to simulate that process. For further information on chopsticks usage, refer to the [Chopsticks](../../../dev-tools/chopsticks/overview.md){target=_blank} documentation.
```

> To set up a test environment then, execute the following command:

Reviewer 2: Is something missing from this sentence? If not, please take out 'then' and the comma.

```bash
npx @acala-network/chopsticks \
--config=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AcalaNetwork/chopsticks/master/configs/polkadot-asset-hub.yml
```

!!!note 
    The above command will spawn a lazy fork of Polkadot Asset Hub with the latest block data from the network. If you need to test Kusama Asset Hub, replace `polkadot-asset-hub.yml` with `kusama-asset-hub.yml` in the command.

> Now, an Asset Hub instance is running locally, and you can proceed with the asset registration process. Note that the local registering process does not differ from the live network process so that you can use the same steps for both.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Asset Hub instance is now running locally, and you can proceed with the asset registration process. Note that the local registration process does not differ from the live network process. Once you have a successful TestNet transaction, you can use the same steps to register the asset on MainNet.
```
